Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
Advisers run no risks.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel. or One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
English equivalent: The best art conceals art.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Bad is the best choice.
A bad settlement is better than a good lawsuit.
Good laws have sprung from bad customs.
We must take the bad with the good.
As you make your bed, so you will sleep on it.
Some days you get the bear, other days the bear gets you.
The best is cheapest.
The good is the enemy of the best.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
Well begun is half done.
Better is the enemy of good.
Better late than never.
Better safe than sorry.
Better underdone than overdone.
Beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, and inwardly are ravening wolves.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
It is the early bird that gets the worm.
Don't bark if you can't bite.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Blood is thicker than water.
Good blood always shows itself.
Bloom where you are planted.
A book is a friend.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Fear the man of one book.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
Don't judge a man until you have walked a mile in his boots.
The boughs that bear most hang lowest.
Better bow than break.
Much bran and little meal.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
Fortune favors the brave.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Don't cross a bridge before you come to it.
A broken watch is right two times a day.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
A new broome sweepeth cleane.
The younger brother the better gentleman.
You can't milk a bull.
Business is business.
Everyone's business is no one's business.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
If you buy quality, you only cry once.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
Don't burn the candle at both ends.
Paddle your own canoe.
A cat may look at a king.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
Curiosity killed the cat.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
The more you stroke the cat's tail, the more he raises his back.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
Cheaters never prosper.
Don't count your chickens before they're hatched.
The child is father to the man and to the woman.
Children are uncertain comforts but certain cares.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Fear not the loss of the bell more than the loss of the steeple.
Good clothes open all doors.
Carrying coals to Newcastle.
Cobblers children are worst shod.
Shoemaker, stick to your last.
As the old cock crows, so crows the young.
Counsel is no command.
Who has not served cannot command.
Common sense is not so common.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Better to be alone than in bad company.
Misery loves company.
Two is a company; three is a crowd.
Confidence begets confidence.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
Counsel is no command.
Give neither salt nor counsel till you are asked for it.
Keep your own counsel.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul.
Courage lost, all lost.
Give credit where credit is due.
Crows will not pick out crows eyes.
There's many a slip 'twixt cup and lip.
The customer is always right.
Praise the day at sunset.
Enjoy the present day, trusting little to what tomorrow may bring.
Today is the first day of the rest of your life.
It's safer to commend the dead than the living.
Deep calls to deep.
The best defence is a good offence.
There is danger in delay.
First deserve, then desire.
Away goes the devil if he finds the door shut against him.
Better the devil you know
Give the devil his due.
Idle hands are the devil's playthings.
If you sup with the devil, use a long spoon.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
Where God has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
"Well done" is better than "well said".
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Brag is a good dog, but holdfast is better.
The dogs bark but the caravan passes on.
Dogs wags their tails, not as much to you as to your bread.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Give a dog a bad name and he'll live up to it.
He that would hang his dog gives out first that he is mad.
If you lie down with dogs, you'll get up with fleas.
Love me, love my dog.
Eat your own dog food.
The door swings both ways.
When one door closes, another door opens. or God never closes one door without opening another.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
When in doubt, don't.
When in doubt, do nothing.
When in doubt, leave it out.
Constant dropping wears away the stone.
Once a drunkard always a drunkard.
If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck, and quacks like a duck, then it probably is a duck.
Dwarf on a giant's shoulder sees farther of the two.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
It's easy to be wise after the event.
Eat your own dog food.
Good eating deserves good drinking.
You don't shit where you eat.
Eavesdroppers hear no good of themselves.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Eggs and oaths are soon broken.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
You can't have an omelette unless you break the egg.
An empty vessel makes much noise.
All's well that ends well.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
The enemy of my enemy, is my friend.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
There is no little enemy.
We carry our greatest enemies within us.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every rose has its thorn.
Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
What everybody says must be true.
Avoid evil and it will avoid thee.
Evil begets evil.
Of two evils choose the least.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
Lead by example.
Example is better than correction.
The exception proves the rule.
The eye looks but it is the mind that sees.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
Fair play's a jewel.
Common fame is often to blame.
Don't fall before you're pushed.
Our greatest glory is not in never falling but in rising every time we fall.
We have nothing to fear but fear itself.
It is better to die on one's feet than live on one's knees.
Good fences make good neighbors.
Go with the flow.
First come, first served.
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
First things first.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
The last will be first, and the first last.
Love is not finding someone to live with; it's finding someone whom you can't live without.
Seek and ye shall find.
You always find something in the last place you look.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Do not add oil to the fire.
Fight fire with fire.
There is no smoke without fire.
You can't catch a fish without its bones.
All is fish that comes to the net.
If wishes were fishes, we'd all cast nets.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
There are as good fish in the sea as ever were caught.
If you got it, flaunt it.
You can catch more flies with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
A fool is ever laughing.
Better foolish by all than wise by yourself.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
(Fools) live poor to die rich.
The first chapter of fools is to think themselves wise.
Every fool is pleased with his own folly.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe, he may dance.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all sit near him.
There's no fool like an old fool.
A wise man changes his mind, but a fool never does.
Forewarned, forearmed.
Forgive and forget.
It's easier to ask forgiveness than permission.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted; if fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
Fire, quoth the fox, when he pissed on the ice.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
A friend is best found in adversity.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A good friend never offends.
A true friend does sometime venture to be offensive.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
All are not friends who speak one fair.
Be a friend to thyself, and others will befriend thee.
Bought friends are not friends indeed.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
He is my friend who grinds at my mill.
He is my friend that succoreth me, not he that pitieth me.
If you want enemies excel others, if you want friends let others excel you.
No longer foster, no longer friend.
Our friends are our mirrors and show us ourselves.
When thy friend asks, let there be no to-morrow.
With friends like that, who needs enemies?
Stolen fruit is the sweetest. 
You know the tree by its fruit.
Garbage in, garbage out.
A man of words and not of deeds, is like a garden full of weeds.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety nine percent perspiration.
From those to whom much is given, much is expected.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
Give and take is fair play.
Give, and ye shall receive.
Give credit where credit is due.
Give him an inch and he'll take a yard.
He gives twice who gives in a trice.
Follow glory and it will flee, flee glory and it will follow thee.
Don't go between the tree and the bark.
What goes around comes around.
What goes up must come down.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
God cures and the physician takes the fee.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions.
God works in mysterious ways.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
All that glisters is not gold. or All that glitters is not gold.
All good things must come to an end.
Don't let the perfect become the enemy of the good.
If it's too good to be true, then it probably is.
If you can't be good, be careful.
Only the good die young.
The best goods are cheapest in the end.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden eggs.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Goose, gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Someone who gossips to you will gossip about you.
That government is best which governs least.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
Grasp all, lose all.
Great events cast their shadows before them.
Great minds agree.
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Never do things by halves.
Never let the right hand know what the left hand is doing.
One hand washes the other.
Handsome is that handsome does.
Hard words break no bones.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
You must not run after two hares at the same time.
Make haste slowly.
Haste makes waste.
Hawks will not pick out Hawk's eyes.
He that can have patience can have what he will.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Two heads are better than one.
We should not expect to find old heads on young shoulders.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
Health is wealth.
The heart sees farther than the head.
A hedge between keeps friends green.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
Every little helps.
He who hesitates is lost.
Hindsight is always twenty-twenty.
History repeats itself.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
Home is where the heart is.
There's no place like home.
Home sweet home.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreasefh.
Who lives by hope will die of hunger.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
Don't change horses in midstream.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
I'll hear it from the horse's mouth.
It's a good horse that never stumbles.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
Ignorance is bliss.
The ignorant always adore what they cannot understand.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
Imagination comes before Creation.
Insanity is doing the same thing over and over, expecting different results.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Iron sharpens iron.
Strike while the iron is hot. or Make hay while the sun shines.
No man is an island.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
Hasty judgment leads to repentance.
Justice delayed is justice denied.
Justice pleaseth few in their own house.
Kindness, like grain, increases by sowing.
Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer.
Know thyself.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Kill your darlings.
A good mind possesses a kingdom.
If you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
It ain't over till the fat lady sings.
Joan is as good as my lady in the dark.
Knowledge is power.
KNOWLEDGE IS OUR LIFE…
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
It's a long lane that has no turning.
That's not good language that all understand not.
He laughs best who laughs last.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, cry and you cry alone.
Laws catch flies, but lets hornets go free.
If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
Less is more.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
Life begins at forty.
Life imitates art.
Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it.
Life is what you make of it.
Life's battles don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
Look on the sunny side of life.
The best things in life are free.
I wonder the limits of the skies above, None too much than the skies inside, I often find myself looking back in the past, Its then, that I realize, I've been a good teacher to myself.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Like cures like. 
Like father, like son.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
Little by little and bit by bit.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Live and let live.
Look before you leap.
Look on the sunny side of life.
Loose lips sink ships.
All is not lost that is in danger.
Use it or lose it.
Love is blind.
Love is like war, Easy to start, Hard to end, Impossible to forget.
Love laughs at locksmiths.
If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. And if they don't, they never were.
It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
There's no such thing as a free lunch.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
A man's home is his castle.
Cometh the hour cometh the man.
A man's worst enemies are often those of his own house.
Good men are hard to find.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Manners maketh the man.
Wise men learn by other men's harms, fools by their own.
Ne'er cast a clout till May be out.
Many a mickle makes a muckle.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
A young man married is a young man marred.
Marry in haste, and repent at leisure.
Measure twice, cut once.
Repetition is the mother of memory.
It's never too late to mend.
Men talk only to conceal the mind.
Mind your own business.
Mind your P's and Q's. or British: Mind your manners
The longest mile is the last mile home.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
The best place for criticism is in front of your mirror.
Misfortunes never come singly.
A miss by an inch is a miss by a mile.
Missing the wood for the trees.
Don't make the same mistake twice.
For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil.
Money makes the mare go.
Money talks.
Money talks, bullshit walks.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Time is money.
More haste, less speed.
The more the merrier.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Much is expected where much is given.
Where there's muck there's brass.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down.
Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.
Nature is beyond all teaching.
Never lie to your doctor.
Never lie to your lawyer.
Never put off till (until) tomorrow what you can do today.
Never say die.
Never say never.
It's never too late to mend.
If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
A night with Venus and a life with mercury.
No man can serve two masters.
No man is an island.
No man is indispensable.
No news is good news.
No pain, no gain.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
Nothing for nothing.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
You don't get nothing for nothing.
There is luck in odd numbers.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Old habits die hard.
Old is Gold, but never sold.
Take care of number one.
The only free cheese is in the mouse trap.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Out of sight... Out of mind.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
It ain't over till it's over.
The world is your oyster.
The best things come in small packages.
No pain, no gain.
You get what you pay for.
There is no greater torment than to be alone in paradise.
Never ask pardon before you are accused.
This, too, shall pass.
There's no peace for the wicked.
In for a penny in for a pound.
Look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
Take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
The voice of the people is the voice of god.
When the pig is proffered, hold up the poke.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
80 percent of life is showing up.
50 percent of something is better than one hundred percent of nothing.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
It's a cracked pitcher that goes longest to the well.
Little pitchers have big ears.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
Politeness costs nothing and gains everything.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
A little pot is easily hot.
Shit or get off the pot.
A watched pot never boils.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice makes man perfect.
Practice what you preach.
Precepts teach, examples move.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Prevention is better than cure.
Every man has his price.
Everything is worth its price.
Pride comes before the fall.
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
He that swells in prosperity will shrink in adversity.
Proverbs run in pairs.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Punishment is lame but it comes.
A civil question deserves a civil answer.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Reality is not only stranger than we imagine, it is stranger than we can imagine.
What you sow is what you reap.
Reason does not come before years.
The remedy is worse than the disease.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
There is no royal road to learning.
All roads lead to Rome.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
In the house of the hanged man, mention not the rope.
Rules were meant to be broken.
Least said, soonest mended.
"Well done" is better than "well said".
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
Seek water in the sea.
Monkey see, monkey do.
There are none so blind as they who do not want to see.
You can't see the wood for the trees.
What you see is what you get.
Proffer'd service stinks. 
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
You don't shit where you eat.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
Cobblers children are worst shod.
Shoemaker, stick to your last.
The show must go on.
There are sins of omission as well as of commission.
By perseverance the snail reached the arc.
If you snooze you lose.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
As you sow, so you reap.
Sow thin, shear thin.
Call a spade a spade.
It is not what you say, it is the way you say it.
Variety is the spice of life.
The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
Spiritually Satisfied Leadership leads to success.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
A stitch in time saves nine.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
A store is no sore.
Confidence is the companion of success.
Don't run behind success run behind perfection and success will come behind you.
Failure is the stepping stone for success.
Nothing succeeds like success.
One secret of success is to know how to deny yourself and other people.
Success is a journey not a destination.
There is nothing new under the sun.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
One swallow does not make a summer.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
Live by the sword, die by the sword.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
Take things as you find them.
It takes two to tango.
Tit for tat.
Without temptation there is no victory.
Once a thief always a thief.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
Think before you speak.
Second thoughts are the best.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Time flies.
Time flies when you're having fun.
Time is money.
Time is precious.
Time will tell.
There is no time like the present.
There is nothing more precious than time and nothing more prodigally wasted.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
Tomorrow is another day.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
A bad workman blames his tools.
Do not play with edged tools.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
People only throw stones at trees with fruit on them.
The apple never falls far from the tree.
There is no tree but bears some fruit.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
Never trouble trouble 'til trouble troubles you.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
A half truth is a whole lie.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Truth may be blamed, but it shall never be shamed.
Truth seeks no corners.
Truth will out.
You never know what you can do until you try.
One good turn deserves another.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
Two heads are better than one.
He that stays in the valley will not get over the hill.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
The vicar of Bray will be vicar of Bray,
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
It takes a village to raise a child.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Don't talk the talk if you can't walk the walk.
Learn to walk before you run.
Walk softly, carry a big stick.
Walk the talk.
Walk the walk and talk the talk.
War is too important to be left to the generals.
Waste not, want not.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
Still water runs deep.
Wade not in unknown waters.
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
Set a herring to catch a whale.
Don't try to reinvent the wheel.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
A man's best fortune or his worst is a wife.
He that will thrive must first ask his wife.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
Take the will for the deed.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
Slow and steady wins the race.
He that sows the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
Life is too short (to drink bad wine).
Good wine needs no bush.
Winning isn't everything, it's the only thing.
Be careful what you wish for, you just might get it.
The wish is father to the thought.
He who is not with me is against me.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
The wolf finds a reason for taking the lamb.
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
A word spoken is past recalling.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
No need of words, trust deeds.
A woman's work is never done.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
Many hands make light work.
No man is born into this world, whose work is not born with him.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
It takes all sorts of people to make a world.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
Take all things as they come and be content.
If anything can go wrong, it will.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
It is not wise to open old wounds.
Diligent youth makes easy age.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.